6 New York English
From BBCLearningEnglish.com
Hello, this is 6 Minute English from BBCLearningEnglish. I'm Neil
And I'm Beth. In Britain, we call them crisps and you might know them as potato chips
But whatever you call them, these fried potato slices are probably the world's favourite snack
Neil, are you a big crisps eater and what's your favourite flavour?
I love crisps, Beth. They are my favourite snack
My favourite flavour is prawn cocktail, which is controversial because a lot of people don't like that flavour
I think my favourite is salt and vinegar
Yummy, you make me hungry
Well crisps might be popular but with lots of oil and salt, they're not the healthiest food
So why do we love them so much? That's what BBC World Service program the food chain wanted to find
out. Here, presenter Ruth Alexander talks to Mitchell Dingwell, her food executive
responsible for developing new crisps flavours
Why do we love crisps so much?
I think it's just that crunch rate, you can't beat the crunch in the net
Delicious, salty feeling in your mouth and it just becomes a snowball effect. You just want more of it
For Mitchell, the best thing about crisps is the loud crunch
He says you can't beat it, an idiom meaning something like that's the best thing and you
won't find anything better
Mitchell says once you started eating crisps, it's hard to stop
and you just want to eat more and more. He calls this a snowball effect
A situation where doing something causes other similar things to happen
You eat one crisps and before you know it, the whole package gone
In this episode, we'll be visiting two countries in love with crisps
and as usual, we'll be learning some useful new words and phrases
all of which you can find on our website, BBCLearningEnglish.com
But first, I have a question for you, Beth
The record for the world's largest packet of crisps was recently broken in Saudi Arabia
but how much did the packet weigh? Was it A about 1.5 tons? B about 2.5 tons
or C about 3.5 tons? Okay, wow, they are all huge. I'm going to guess about 3.5 tons
Okay, we'll find out the answer later
Let's travel first to Singapore home of JoLineEng
A market research analyst who specializes in salty snacks
Here's JoLine talking with Ruth Alexander for BBC program The Food Chain
Is the potato chip the most popular of all salty snacks? It's very very much dependent on personal preference
But if I were to look at certain countries, you could see like in the UK it's very much
part and parcel of like you don't have it only during snack times you have it with lunch as well
You put it, my husband's from UK and he kind of put it in his sandwich as well
sandwich with a crisp inside oh yeah, that's great exactly
JoLine says the popularity of different snacks depends on personal preference
Someone's subjective liking or disliking for something based on their personal opinion
In some places crisps are part and parcel of everyday life
Part and parcel means to be an essential element or feature of something
In Britain crisps are so essential that people even eat crisps sandwiches
But not everywhere is so in love with potato chips
Let's meet Jenny Martinis, a food blogger from Mexico
In Mexico, tortilla corn chips are eaten instead of potato chips
And it's common to see street vendors selling bags of corn tortillas filled with different sources
Here Jenny tells Ruth Alexander more for BBC World Service program The Food Chain
For you, which is your go-to snack that tortilla chips or the potato chips?
Definitely the tortilla chip. Why?
Because you could do so many things dip it in almost everything adding some Waka molly
Spicy salsa or just sour cream with a mixture of chipotle sauce
Ruth asks if tortillas are Jenny's go-to snack
You can use the phrase go-to to describe something which is relied upon to be the best thing for a particular purpose
For example for a lot of people Wikipedia is the go-to website for online information
And Jenny thinks corn tortillas are especially good with guacamole
A paste made of mashed avocado which sounds delicious
And maybe a little healthier than a British crisp sandwich
Speaking of which what was the answer to your question Neil?
I asked you how heavy the world's largest bag of crisps was
And I said very heavy over three and a half tons
Well, it's not that big but the real answer is still enormous about 1.5 tons
The bag made in re-ad was 9 meters tall
Okay, let's recap the vocabulary we've learned starting with the phrase you can't beat that
Meaning that something is the best and you won't find anything better
A snowball effect is a situation where one action causes other similar actions to happen
Someone's personal preference is their subjective liking or disliking for something based on their own opinion
To be part and parcel of something means to be an essential or integral feature of it
And something which is described as the go-to can be relied upon as the best thing for a particular situation
And finally guacamole is a paste made of mashed avocado, lime juice and salt delicious
Once again, our six minutes are up
But if you're hungry for more then head over to our website
BBCLearningEnglish.com
Where you'll find a worksheet and quiz for this episode
See you again soon, but for now, goodbye
Goodbye
6 million English
From BBCLearningEnglish.com